And before going and writing,
we are going to write two projects
before getting into the next topic.
Let's talk a little bit about
contract structures because so
far we did the functions and that's all.
We have if else, that's pretty simple.
Switch, it says reloaded.
I have four for loops,
we don't have while or do while.
Simplicity, we don't need a while.
Probably, you are thinking yeah,
but sometimes the four is, well,
you will see that the four
will be good enough.
We don't need parentheses for
Boolean conditions.
Typically, you write if parentheses.
Well, not here.
Four parentheses, not here.
No parentheses, okay?
And also, we have only one
type of operator for equality.
So we have just = =, we don't have
triple equals or other weird things.
No.
Just one, okay?
Pretty simple.
If, else is typically as you're expecting,
the only strange part is that
you can put more than one
expression in the if condition
with semicolon is the one.
And if you do that,
the last one is the condition, and
then you can, for example,
create variables.
You can create variables
in the if declaration.
What's the point?
The variable that you set
here will live in the if, and
also in the else, but not outside.
So it's kind of a special scope that
is not possible on other languages.
You create a variable on the outer scope,
or then if it's an inner scope, you have
a different one for the if and for
the else, for the true and for the false.
Well, here you can create variables
whose scope will be both.
Because they realize that's a typical
use case for example error messages or
whatever objects that you wanna create
variables that you wanna create, and you
want that variable to exist both on the
positive and the negative side of this.
The switch.
It's pretty cool, actually.
This is the standard switch.
The switch is a select case, so
it's going to pick only one
of the cases that are set.
We don't have breaks.
If you're coming from JavaScript or other
languages, we don't need to set the break.
Actually what you have is a special
sentence, it's fall through in
case you want the opposite of break,
you wanna fall through to the next case.
So in this case, if it's Saturday, you
can fall through automatically to Sunday.
So it's going to execute the same code.
But by default, it will break.
Okay, make sense?
That's kind of simple.
But one nice thing that we
have about switch here,
is that we can actually remove
the whole declaration and
use case with any Boolean
condition from any variable.
So you can use this to reduce if else,
if else, if else, if else, if.
So it's just a switch condition
that looks pretty cool.
Again to clean code that then
you can ask anything and
only the first one that
gets true will be executed.
Okay, make sense?
And there is always a default
if no one was actually true,
then it goes directly to the end.
Pretty cool, right?
The for loop.
First, we can use it as with
the classic for, with three arguments,
the initialization, then the condition,
and the post loop sentence.
That's pretty common to any for.
We can also use it
similar to what is a for
in JavaScript if you have
experience with that.
So when you have a collection,
it can be an array,
it can be a map, it can be a slice.
You prefix that with a range, and
then when you're going to
get here is a new variable.
Be careful :=, it's a new variable for
the index, not for
the actual element in the collection,
that's why it's not a foreach.
It's similar to a for in.
You get the index, you still need
to get to the property manually.
If you want similar to foreach,
it's the same thing range, but
you receive two values.
The first one is the key, the index,
and then you receive the value.
We will use that now, so no worries.
Do we have anything else?
Well, actually, no, but
you can use for for while.
Instead of having a while,
we use the same for.
The four also accepts directly
a Boolean expression,
and it's a Y also you
have an infinite loop.
It's just four with no expression.
Okay, we don't have while, just for.
So we use the for for all the loops.
Based on the argument that you used me,
you found there too,
therefore, it will use one or the other.
If, switch, for that's all you have.